feat: further improvements to the Creating your bot section (#1427)
discordjs/guide: guide/creating-your-bot/event-handling.md

		console.error(error);
	}
});
```
:::
::::

Currently, the event listeners are in the `index.js` file. <DocsLink path="class/Client?scrollTo=e-ready" /> emits once when the `Client` becomes ready for use, and <DocsLink path="class/Client?scrollTo=e-interactionCreate" /> emits whenever an interaction is received. Moving the event listener code into individual files is simple, and we'll be taking a similar approach to the [command handler](/creating-your-bot/command-handling.md).

::: warning
You're only going to move these two events from `index.js`. The code for [loading command files](/creating-your-bot/command-handling.html#loading-command-files) will stay here!
:::

## Individual event files

Your project directory should look something like this:

```:no-line-numbers
discord-bot/
├── commands/
├── node_modules/
├── config.json
├── deploy-commands.js
├── index.js
├── package-lock.json
└── package.json
```

> Create an `events` folder in the same directory. You can then move the code from your event listeners in `index.js` to separate files; `events/ready.js` and `events/interactionCreate.js` files.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be a colon, with "files" at the end omitted?

```suggestion
Create an `events` folder in the same directory. You can then move the code from your event listeners in `index.js` to separate files: `events/ready.js` and `events/interactionCreate.js`.
```

};
```
:::
::: code-group-item index.js (after)
```js
const fs = require('node:fs');
const path = require('node:path');

> const { Client, Collection, Events, GatewayIntentBits } = require('discord.js');

Reviewer: This is no longer used as the event handler has come into play.

```suggestion
const { Client, Collection, GatewayIntentBits } = require('discord.js');
```

for (const file of commandFiles) {
	const filePath = path.join(commandsPath, file);
	const command = require(filePath);
	client.commands.set(command.data.name, command);
}

client.login(token);
```
:::
::::

The `name` property states which event this file is for, and the `once` property holds a boolean value that specifies if the event should run only once. You don't need to specify this in `interactionCreate.js` as the default behavior will be to run on every event instance. The `execute` function holds your event logic, which will be called by the event handler whenever the event emits.

## Reading event files

Next, let's write the code for dynamically retrieving all the event files in the `events` folder. We'll be taking a similar approach to our [command handler](/creating-your-bot/command-handling.md). Place the new code highlighted below in your `index.js`.

`fs.readdirSync().filter()` returns an array of all the file names in the given directory and filters for only `.js` files, i.e. `['ready.js', 'interactionCreate.js']`.

```js {18-29}
const fs = require('node:fs');
const path = require('node:path');

> const { Client, Collection, Events, GatewayIntentBits } = require('discord.js');

Reviewer: This is no longer used as the event handler has come into play.

```suggestion
const { Client, Collection, GatewayIntentBits } = require('discord.js');
```

		client.on(event.name, (...args) => event.execute(...args));
	}
}

client.login(token);
```

You'll notice the code looks very similar to the command loading above it - read the files in the events folder and load each one individually.

> The <DocsLink path="class/Client" /> class in discord.js extends the [`EventEmitter`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_class_eventemitter) class. Therefore, the `client` object exposes the [`.on()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_on_eventname_listener) and [`.once()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_once_eventname_listener) methods that you can use to register event listeners. These methods take two arguments: the event name and a callback function. These are defined in our separate event files as `name` and `execute`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The <DocsLink path="class/Client" /> class in discord.js extends the [`EventEmitter`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_class_eventemitter) class. Therefore, the `client` object exposes the [`.on()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_on_eventname_listener) and [`.once()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_once_eventname_listener) methods that you can use to register event listeners. These methods take two arguments: the event name and a callback function. These are defined in your separate event files as `name` and `execute`.
```

> The <DocsLink path="class/Client" /> class in discord.js extends the [`EventEmitter`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_class_eventemitter) class. Therefore, the `client` object exposes the [`.on()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_on_eventname_listener) and [`.once()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_once_eventname_listener) methods that you can use to register event listeners. These methods take two arguments: the event name and a callback function. These are defined in your separate event files as `name` and `execute`.

Reviewer: I suppose this should be in its correct case:

```suggestion
The <DocsLink path="class/Client" /> class in discord.js extends the [`EventEmitter`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_class_eventemitter) class. Therefore, the `Client` object exposes the [`.on()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_on_eventname_listener) and [`.once()`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_emitter_once_eventname_listener) methods that you can use to register event listeners. These methods take two arguments: the event name and a callback function. These are defined in your separate event files as `name` and `execute`.
```

Reviewer 2: this is not referring to the type, but to the identifier, right?

The callback function passed takes argument(s) returned by its respective event, collects them in an `args` array using the `...` [rest parameter syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/rest_parameters), then calls `event.execute()` while passing in the `args` array using the `...` [spread syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax). They are used here because different events in discord.js have different numbers of arguments. The rest parameter collects these variable number of arguments into a single array, and the spread syntax then takes these elements and passes them to the `execute` function.

After this, listening for other events is as easy as creating a new file in the `events` folder. The event handler will automatically retrieve and register it whenever you restart your bot.

::: tip

> In most cases, you can access your `client` instance in other files by obtaining it from one of the other discord.js structures, e.g. `interaction.client` in the `interactionCreate` event. It doesn't need to manually passed to your events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, you can access your `client` instance in other files by obtaining it from one of the other discord.js structures, e.g. `interaction.client` in the `interactionCreate` event. It doesn't need to be manually passed to your events.
```

> In most cases, you can access your `client` instance in other files by obtaining it from one of the other discord.js structures, e.g. `interaction.client` in the `interactionCreate` event. It doesn't need to be manually passed to your events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In most cases, you can access your `client` instance in other files by obtaining it from one of the other discord.js structures, e.g. `interaction.client` in the `interactionCreate` event. You do not need to manually pass it to your events.
```
passive -> active
